1. What are the three types of printers?  The three types of printers are character printers, line printers, and page printers.

2. What is a letter-quality printer?  A letter-quality printer is a type of character printer that produces output of
typewriter quality, typically with speeds ranging from 10 to 50 characters per second.

3. What is a dot-matrix printer?  A dot-matrix printer forms each character as a pattern of dots. It generally has a
lower quality of type than letter-quality printers but is faster, with speeds ranging from 50 to 200 characters per
second.

4. What type of printer is the most common with microcomputer systems?  Character printers are the most common type used
with microcomputer systems.

5. What is the most common printer type used on large computer systems?  Line printers are the most common printer type
used on large computer systems.

6. What is an impact printer? Give an example.  An impact printer uses electromechanical mechanisms that cause hammers
to strike against a ribbon and the paper. An example of an impact printer is a line printer.

7. What is a nonimpact printer? Give examples.  A nonimpact printer does not hit or impact a ribbon to print. Examples
include ink-jet printers and laser printers.

8. What are the most widely used printers? Inkjet printers.

9. How do you distinguish between a letter-quality printer and a dot-matrix printer?  A letter-quality printer produces

printer forms characters as patterns of dots and is generally faster (50 to 200 characters per second) but has lower
print quality.

10. Which of these printers is slower?  The letter-quality printer is slower compared to the dot-matrix printer.

11. What types of character printers do you know?  The types of character printers include letter-quality printers,
dot-matrix printers, and ink-jet printers.

12. How are printed characters formed by means of an ink-jet printer?  Printed characters are formed by an ink-jet
printer that sprays small drops of ink onto paper to create the characters. The ink is affected by magnetic fields,
causing it to take the shape of a character as it approaches the paper.

13. What are the main types of a line printer? Which of them is faster?  The main types of line printers are drum
printers and chain printers. Chain printers tend to be faster, with speeds ranging from 400 to 2,400 lines per minute,
compared to drum printers, which range from 200 to over 2,000 lines per minute.

14. What techniques are used in the operation of page printers?  Page printers use electrophotographic techniques, which
have developed from paper copier technology, including laser-beam printers that combine laser beams with
electrophotographic techniques to create printer output at high speeds.
