1. What is the purpose of input and output devices?  The purpose of input and output devices is to link the computer to
its external environment by allowing data and instructions to enter the data processing system and enabling information
to leave it.

2. What types of input-output devices do you know?  Types of input-output devices include:
   - High-speed devices: magnetic disks, magnetic tapes
   - Medium-speed devices: card readers, line printers, page printers, computer output microfilms, magnetic diskettes,
     optical character readers, optical mark readers, visual displays
   - Low-speed devices: bar-code readers, character printers, digitizers, keyboard input devices, plotters, voice
     recognition and response units

3. Why are data transformed into a binary code while entering the input device?  Data are transformed into binary code
while entering the input device because the primary memory of the computer is designed to accept data in binary format.

4. What is an example of a human-independent output?  An example of a human-independent output is a reel of magnetic
tape upon which collected data are stored in binary format.

5. What is an I/O interface?  An I/O interface is a unit that matches the unique physical or electrical characteristics
of input devices to the requirements of the computer system, and it also adapts the output to the external environment.

6. What are the major differences between the various I/O devices?  The major differences between various I/O devices
are the media they use and the speed with which they are able to transfer data to or from primary storage.

7. What types of I/O devices tend to be high-speed devices?  High-speed devices include magnetic disks and magnetic
tapes, which are entirely electronic in their operation or magnetic media that can be moved at high speed.

8. What type of devices tend to be low-speed devices?  Low-speed devices include bar-code readers, character printers,
digitizers, keyboard input devices, plotters, and voice recognition and response units, which have complex mechanical
motion or operate at the speed of a human operator.
