
1. What are the functional units of a digital computer?  The functional units of a digital computer are: 1) storage
units (primary and secondary), 2) central processing unit (CPU), and 3) input and output units.

2. What units make up the central processing unit?  The text does not specify the individual units that make up the CPU,
but it generally includes the control unit and the arithmetic-logical unit (ALU).

3. How is the computer system organized?  The computer system is organized around the primary storage unit, with all
data and instructions passing through primary storage. The sequence of description is: storage units (primary and
secondary), central processing unit, and input and output units.

4. What are the two main types of storage units?  The two main types of storage units are primary storage and secondary
storage.

5. What do they contain?  Both primary and secondary storage units contain data and the instructions for processing that
data.

6. What is the function of primary storage?  The function of primary storage is to hold (store) all data to be
processed, intermediate results of processing, final results of processing, and all the instructions required for
ongoing processes.

7. Why is primary storage often called memory?  Primary storage is often called memory because of its similarity to the
function of the human brain in retaining information.

8. In what respect does computer memory differ from human memory?  Computer memory differs from human memory in that it
must retain very large numbers of symbol combinations without forgetting or changing any details and must be able to
locate all its contents quickly upon demand.

9. What are codes based on?  Codes used by computer designers are based upon a binary number system that has only two
possible values, 0 and 1.

10. What is secondary storage and what is it used for?  Secondary storage refers to slower, less expensive storage units
that are available for computer systems. It is used to store many millions, sometimes billions, of bytes of data, and
data is stored in these units in the same binary codes as in main storage, made available to main storage as needed.
